my father died just about a month ago
now and this video is my occasion to
talk about the crossroads in my life
wanted to started to change my own legal
name and talk a little bit about the
fact that I knew my father that I really
knew and understood who he was because
very very few people live on this earth
did it's not so much a video about my
father himself is that because I'm
censoring myself I really made an
aesthetic decision when I started this
channel aesthetic rather than ethical or
moral that this channel was for me to
tell my story and not to tell my parents
story knocked on my ex-wife story not to
tell anyone else's story of them in mind
and I still do feel both aesthetically
and morally that in many ways his story
is not mine to tell now relationship
with my father was dramatic we had our
differences but you know first and
fourth I gotta say I really did know the
man I did appreciate the man I
appreciated the good things and bad
about him I understood how his mind
works and I had a huge advantage over
all my other brothers and sisters
because I stayed at home all the way
through high school and all the way
through University during university I
didn't eat meals than three times a day
I would talk to him a couple times a
week but still that meant that during
the adult years of my life I was talking
to him several times a week man-to-man
as two adults and during those years he
really did talk to me as an equal and we
talked about history and politics and
his philosophy of life and his view of
the world and his business and his views
on the arts what have you I mean it is a
real credit to him that he could
basically set aside the fact that I was
his biological son and talked to me as a
friend and during those years he did
talk to me as a friend as an equal as
another adult I don't have a whole lot
of compliments to give up in this video
but that is one and both of us benefited
from it during those years my father did
not have many four
and you may have one or two in distant
parts of the world who we talk to once
in a while but in many ways he was alone
and he needed that friendship also now
the contrast for me is I have so many
brothers and sisters my father had nine
children with quite a number of
different mothers to those children and
in general all of my blood relatives
whether they're brothers sisters cousins
aunts and uncles might be they really
seem to view my father as a myth rather
than a man I was talking to one of my
brother's once and he said to me that my
father could have been a great poet if
only he had chosen another woman to be
his wife my brother had this fantastic
narrative in his head about how my
father was you know really in his soul a
poet and painter and artists and
political extremists don't forget that
but that my father had made a terrible
mistake in choosing my biological mother
to be his next wife and that only when
he when he turned this corner when he
changed paths then he gave up all his
dreams and aspirations to be a poet and
threw away his bright future as you know
whatever one of the greatest poets of
Canada yeah
grandiose so much that they did himself
may have been he would have never once
claimed that he could have paid the rent
with his poetry that he could have made
that his exclusive you know career or
means of income and you know he could
have chosen to spend more time writing
poetry especially in his old age
obviously he could have published more
books of poetry and his poems are not
all bad but what struck me about this
example was my brother was really deeply
indulging in this myth-making mentality
about my father both both in regarding
him as hero and villain most of the
people who knew him that was really
healthy someone thought of as a
larger-than-life hero and a smaller than
life villain and never really just
appreciated him for the man he was
all-in-all um I turned to my brother and
said to him simply oh yeah you know his
poems had have you read them
like have you read the books of poetry
Ashley poke my brother looked at me
astonished it never as if it had never
entered his mind to actually get the
book out of the library but he said to
me no have you said yeah you know no and
again I could say good and bad but he
had a few good poems in there now that
he's deceased I'm actually asking my mom
maybe they can get a copy of that book
one of the books of poetry that I'm
thinking of in particular and hold on to
it as a memento of my father
I remember once as a school project I
actually memorized and read aloud one of
the poems because I think the school
project was to memorize and read one
poem from any published Canadian poet so
I chose my own father as the published
name thought it was good poem
in this way I've said this to my father
directly in the last used as I said
several times said to them look I'm not
like your other sons and daughters I
don't think of you as a great author I
don't think of you as a great
businessman I don't think he was a great
political figure I don't think he was a
great poet or a painter quite right you
know I think of you as the guy who fell
asleep on the couch watching baseball I
think of you for the man you really are
not for who you pretend to be and not
for any of the larger-than-life roles
hero or villain what have you that other
people kind of project onto you or
ascribe to you the roles they expect you
to play and I think he did appreciate
that about me that I was maybe the only
person in his life who really talked to
him man-to-man and who knew who I was
talking to and I knew when he was lying
to me you know I could tell like I said
I could read him like a book most people
never figure it out but I figured it out
um you know I think he did appreciate
that but on the whole it's obvious that
he enjoyed the other game
I think he enjoyed rather more changing
hats and having different people who
regarded him as the hero as the villain
as the poet as the political extremists
or as the businessman because in his
career very often he just he really just
literally put on a different hat and he
had people who regarded him in a totally
different way until the different
context he just stood around talking to
architects and businessmen it would have
you and and bureaucrats and there's
another side of his life where they
didn't they didn't know at all I mean I
see apparently nobody uses Google they
just even look up the books he publish
which did indeed include both both
poetry and and political extremism so
[ __ ] I mean so far I'm smiling and
laughing a lot you know nobody wants to
speak ill to dead it is true though
there was a kind of traumatic turning
point in my life which is when I changed
my legal name now it's interesting I do
not think of it as a negative thing in
my life
I don't associate it with oh stick with
the same word I don't think of it as a
trauma I think of it as kind of a joyful
wonderful thing that I turned this
corner and changed my legal name and
took on this new direction other things
did not turn out quite as planned I mean
I can talk about it kind of before after
enduring when the decision was made and
how the outcomes were a little bit
unexpected for me in some ways my change
of name it relates negatively to my
father's legacy and in some ways it
really positively reflects the
upbringing I had and he could recognize
that also so I grew up very much being
immersed in the world of modern art of
painters and art galleries and our
history and a very politicized view of
the significance of Modern Art as that
was my father's own taste and the art
world even more than the world of say
science fiction writers or poets or
philosophers is indeed full of people
who adopt a nom de plume or a nom de
guerre who use you know a outrageous
second name who adopt a different
identity in their role as creator author
or artist
so actually in the months prior to my
making the decision changed my legal
name I was already thinking about that
really seriously for quite a number of
reasons and it's interesting if I had
done it then if I'd done it just a few
months earlier then the whole way it
would have been presented to my parents
and the significance of within the
family might have been quite different
and they did accept it in that same way
too they did say okay they recognize
there were other people in the family
who had adopted you know different names
to live under as authors or in one case
as an athlete actually I have one uncle
who was a professional boxer and he made
his his name as a boxer his legal name
also so he didn't have to have been a me
was he was born and raised with but it
is true that at the particular time when
this happened I had already ill during
those years my university I thought I
knew everything good bad and ugly about
my father already and there was a lot of
bad and there was a lot of ugly and I
thought we had gotten to the point in
our relationship where I knew he would
lie to me because he lied all the time
he'd lied to everyone
so I say most people never really knew
the man they really did not know who he
was I think whatever was he thought
about him the reality is he was a kid
who grew up playing baseball and he
would have never gone to university and
never would have dreamed of having the
career he had if only he could have made
it into the lowest level of you know
triple-a Sandlot baseball that was his
passion in life don't let him tell you
other projects you know sure he took on
other passions but you know it's really
easy to misrepresent who he was and what
he was about is that he delighted in
that he delighted in the
misrepresentation and in looking in the
twisted mirror the funhouse mirror of
how other people perceived in
misperceive oh that was a delight all
his life from his teenage years to a
dying days I don't know if he loved to
deceive others so much as he loved the
feeling of being deceived themselves but
to be caught up in a story and to be a
protagonist in a story was much more
important to him than any sense of
honesty integrity or authenticity things
keep us
he was in his way specially it was but
severely lacking it okay look um I got
to a point with my father or I thought I
knew all the dirt that obviously when I
was a child had been hidden under a rug
and there I was I basically finished
University but university had not
actually issued my diploma yet so
bureaucratic reasons basically there's
this considerable delay between what I
really finished my university courses
and I hadn't actually graduated on paper
yet admitted issued as graduated during
that time there were shocking
revelations of other things in his life
that really did impact my life that had
been kept a secret from me and that he
had been lying to me about you know even
that year so he had never admitted to me
how many brothers and sisters I had it
was only the tip of the iceberg it was a
long sordid story a whole bunch of
revelations and again I was just
praising him before for the extent to
which he had speak spoken to me as a
friend
man-to-man as equals for years so
although there might have been some
justification or some excuse and I found
this out when I was 12 years old they
might have said well come on how could
we have told you this this stuff the
shocking horrible sorted stuff the
secret that our life when you were eight
how do we a billion here they're all
right but this is at the end of my
university diploma but when I wasn't
just a fully grown adult but we've been
spending a lot of quality time together
as we're going to talk and again I knew
him I didn't have any kind of hero
worship of him I didn't idolize him
during those years I regarded him as a
deeply flawed character I knew about
some tremendously immoral unethical
things he both did and just things he
believed in preached
you know in the abstract but that I
considered utterly unforgivable but you
know we could we could get along you
know we had we were copacetic put it
that way in those years we had these
unbelievable revelations and included
among them several brothers and sisters
the existence of which I had never heard
of before and still to this day he went
to his grave you'll know if you look at
this
everyone else's obituary said something
like proud father of three children or
father you know proud father of two sons
or something she's obituary does not
admit does not mention how many sons
autocracy
anybody lived his whole life that way
yes with me of something with that and
he went to his grave his obituary still
does not admit I already said the
daughters yet what a guy anyway at that
point it was interesting because my own
thought about adopting a new name
formerly were really attached first and
foremost to what I saw as my own role as
an author in the future it would be a
whole different video I mean I could
talk about it now would be really likely
what books I was planning on writing at
the time what role I saw myself as an
author in the future but I did think
look publishing under my name this is
going to be a big part of my life how am
I going to approach that now that I'm
finishing University and I had very at
that time a very specific plans to
pursue a career path quite separate from
my research and humanitarian work so in
many ways they had a very clear vision
of myself becoming an author and what
kind of research I wanted to do but I
was going to do that outside of academia
which to some extent heads for meeting
the Kagan you know I did already at that
time I had my eyes on Cambodia at my
eyes in a certain kind of humanitarian
work a certain kind of you know social
political research and research like the
Buddhism a lot of those interests were
already in place but then how was going
to approach that how was going to write
up that and who I was going to be what
the name was these of those were
questions I really to ask myself and
already before those revelations I was
thinking I had a heavy heart every time
I sign the name that he gave me it was
really loaded it was really something
negative for me to look at in part
because it was linked to him in part
because was linked to a particular
political meaning but the name had both
the first name in the last name and then
after the shocking revelations happened
all of that was made dramatically worse
because now all of a sudden I looked at
this this name
and it was attached to a real sense of
shame much greater than I felt before a
real sense of revulsion for the shame
for the family I came from and for who
my father was
and again it's to his credit this wasn't
a secret I mean I talked about this with
him man-to-man without either one of us
screaming or throwing a book across the
room maybe being a B that's true but
it's a bit flattering not to say that
it's his responses were entirely you
know philosophical I remember one
conversation he and I had where he did
break down crying which is totally
totally understandable if anything makes
him more human and then when we talked
about it years later he has this habit
of mind he absolutely insisted he could
not admit that he had broke down crying
friendly that was a strange sad and
immature thing if you're on me I'll just
digress from that narrative for a moment
you know at one point I took my father
aside because my mother complained to me
she said look you know your father he
started drinking booze Oh whose oh is a
type of liquor or a type of alcohol it
tastes like a nice it's terribly hot
Susan yes talk him out of it if they
would go to these parties and social
events and business meetings and so on
and they would be meeting which refined
and highly educated people and my father
had started ordering booze out ashes
drink of tripe at these events and this
was simply regarded as unsophisticated
this is regarded as a drink for frat
boys not something becoming of elderly
refined gentleman sheer snobbery sheer
snobbery but my father had started
drinking my mother appealed to me she
implored me to look you got to take this
up because this is messing up our social
calendar and possibly negatively
impacting our business okay so I took
them aside and again we're I'm fully
grown adults here
I'd already quit drinking for many years
but I knew about alcohol
and I said look I'm going to break this
down for you this over here is ouzo this
over here is Pastis do you want to know
what the difference is the difference is
the cultural perception of you and what
kind of guy you are when you drink one
rather the other was a long conversation
and I poured him you know some shots and
tasted them and explained to him at that
time I knew where Pastis came from and
how it was made and you know and he
learned he adopted it so I had this
bizarre meeting to discuss his drinking
habits and I explained to him why he had
the upgrade from you so to Pasties after
that we didn't talk it felt like two
years but maybe it was a year and a half
or something I forget we didn't talk for
quite a while we I didn't see him we
didn't see each other for a while and
then I saw him again
under strange circumstances and we were
standing at the same table where we had
the earlier conversation whatever was a
year earlier would have and at the
exactly the same table he was pouring
himself Pastis and I said to him as a
joke I said oh you know so I see you're
not drinking news though anymore because
this is obviously my influence from the
other conversation and he looked at me
and we're saying they're face to face
and he categorically denied he refused
that I had ever talked him about this
that this was something and he told me
the same story the same narrative as if
this was something he had invented
himself but he and I had never talked
about he was telling that he was basic
with other the same information of a
Pastis and at the difference from ouzo
and why he drinks best easier than ouzo
as if I had never heard before
I kept saying to him I told you this
this is like I taught you this was a
memorable father-son moment in our lives
why are you doing this why you lying to
me and he couldn't couldn't get him
shaken out of it maybe 10 years after
that we talked about the same episode
again because I was rating them not to
beat them over there with it not to you
know emotionally you know make a little
more anything for the saint don't look
you need to understand you don't tell
lies the same way
people do most people lie to you when
they have a clear ulterior motive
they're trying to conceal something or
they're trying to affect an outcome or
manipulate us I said to them your
problem is you lie all the time and you
don't have it under control and you
can't stop even when I can see it in
your eyes that you do remember he didn't
have a veterinarian he had a remarkably
good memory you know I was same as him
you remember I taught you this he can
see his eyes he knows it's true
he knows he's lying but he just can't
stop so he was a he was a nymphomaniac I
would say I mean these are small and
harmless examples but the vast majority
people did not understand the way his
mind worked they did not know who he was
as a man and so all kinds of acrimony
and misunderstandings a mutual hatred
grew out of it because sometimes he was
doing things that really hurt other
people hurt their feelings or negatively
impact their lives and he felt no sense
of responsibility and he didn't even
know he was doing it and that's not to
expel pay them I mean I myself was in
situations where he made decisions that
had terrible terrible impacts on my life
and you know you could spend years
trying to explain to them you made this
decision you did this thing here were
the consequences for me it was very very
hard to get him to take responsibility
or just to admit that he said that or he
did that but he did sometimes I mean if
you if you spent ten years there were
there were some examples where ten years
later he apologized me for something
after I'd explained it to him five times
so I'm you know he had a human heart he
had you know he was not he was not
lacking in the normal human sentiments
and emotions and he did love me he
really did and he did appreciate me and
whether that wasn't the level of asking
my advice or opinion about things when
you really appreciated my opinion or in
a more you know sentimental conventional
sense of father to son you know during
the last years of his life he was
reading the essays I was writing about
history of politics when I was a
University of Victoria
appreciation for that the appreciation
for the man I became and above all else
I mean he had appreciation of the fact
that I was able to do a lot of things
that he was not able to do a major
turning point in his life you know was
that when he was quite young he decided
to learn Sanskrit when he finished his
BA and he couldn't do it making a long
story short here but even being in a
university where he had access to
dictionaries and textbooks and a
professor to teach him and help him and
so on a professor on a tutor he could
not do Sanskrit 101 he couldn't learn
the basics of Sanskrit and I by contrast
taught myself
Palli the ancient canonical language of
tera vaada Buddhism an ancient Indian
language cognate with Sanskrit very
similar to Sanskrit I taught myself Bali
with no textbook and no teacher and no
university while simultaneously learning
to speak loshon and doing humanitarian
work and living in very rough Terkel
conditions of life so you know he got to
see with time you know he got to see
just how sharp I was he got to see how
sharp I was because he saw me doing the
cutting put it that way so there were
there were ways in which I can say we
had positive relations but he knew that
my decision to change my name at the
time that had happened it really did
reflect a lot of sorrow and agony you
know that that was his fault in brief
and look there are many many ways in
which I feel very positively about my
change in name I'm going to talk to
other people who come from show us a
troubled family background I often
suggested to them that they should do it
also to me it was tremendously positive
and liberating that whenever I signed a
check at the bank or sign government
paperwork I didn't have to look at that
name I didn't have to be attached to
that family I didn't have to remind it
of who my father was and what he did and
those particularly terrible revelations
or what have you you know or all the
unforgivable things you know my parents
did
to me that we tried to address and you
know I've moved past I have gone on with
my life I'm not psychologically burdened
with them anymore
but that had terrible terrible effects
in my life for many many years you know
for me it's actually a really positive
and joyful thing now on the other hand I
was not planning in Toronto to live
under that name at the time I made the
change I did think of it as being like
many of the modern painters modern poets
modern authors who you know had a name
they published under the name they used
when they published books what-have-you
but they didn't expect their own mother
to use that things they didn't expect
their brand mother would use that name
or I assume the social circle of people
who went to primary school with them
they didn't call them by that name
either and there were a lot of ways in
which I mean elements of my channel
starting with us a friend of mine a few
days ago are really still kind of
painterly and that really is the
education my father provided me with in
Modern Art the fact that this channel is
named abolish yell it's really very
painterly the fact that my name is
eyes'll massarde and if you google it
find out where that name comes from what
it really is that also is really very
painterly and it connects to for me I'd
say above all else you know data ISM the
data period more than surrealist or
modern abstract expressionist or
what-have-you but you know across the
board there is this kind of reckless
creative sense of picking out such an
arbitrary and provocative name and
making it work for you as an author as a
creative person but you know I was
indeed in have the other steps in my
life planned what ended up happening was
on the one hand against my wishes
because I told my parents explicitly I
respect you to call me this name I also
have my grandmother to come to this name
I'm not gonna live under it here in
Toronto and it's psychology I don't know
why they did the opposite they forced me
to do exactly that
they went to my grandmother and
spoke to her they decided to force me to
transition to using that name all the
time everywhere in Toronto and again
I'll never get an explanation them
because that was the exact opposite of
my intention I thought this would be the
name I publish monographs under but that
I wasn't going to use it face to face
people my life especially not them and
you know I ended up leaving Toronto and
not just geographically suddenly I mean
the way my life turned out
living in Cambodia Laos Thailand Taiwan
all these other places
I lost all contact with the people who
had known me by the name that my father
gave me then the name was born too so my
nom de guerre became the only name I
lived under aside from the fact that had
Asian names on top of it so I can Laos
you know some people call me sound perk
you know actually in the office in Laos
it was called I Seoul and I song two
variations of the same nickname you know
here in China I'm dying and so on and so
forth I had I had names in Asian
languages oh yeah in Cambodia was is
Erick so you know I had another layer of
pseudonyms so to speak on top of my
legal name everywhere I lived in
everywhere I went which is also very
interesting but all the people in knew
me personally girlfriends you know but
also just friends they all knew that
about my family background they knew
that I you know I biological family but
I've broken from them and adopted a
different name and you know it really
just depends on their level of interest
and what seemed appropriate how much
they wanted how much they want to know
about the reasons for that but yeah
overall I mean when the simple fact of
my legal name change was shared on
YouTube it amused the hell out of me to
see different people latching onto it
and constructing different stories about
it and you know wild conspiracy theories
what-have-you and to me I thought great
if that's just what that
just what a name exists war you know the
story grows in the telling you know
because for me also I mean all these
decisions like you know the decision I
made to move to Laos when I did in some
ways that was a really sorrowful
decision I could talk about you know sad
aspects of that and it was you know
having to face up to some of my dreams
in life seemed to be impossible career
aspirations and educational aspirations
and have a face of the fact that in a
Canadian university there was no way I
could study the things I wanted to study
well what do you want to do do you want
to go back and get a masters degree that
you hate in a subject you have contempt
for with a professor you don't respect
studying something you don't want to
study in the wrong language you know and
still doesn't Lee do a job and maybe
leads to you to be in debt or daddy you
know do you want to go back and most do
that every day or do you want to make a
bold break from your current
circumstances go up and live on the
Mekong River I can still remember the
first time I saw the Mekong and the
magical sense you had just in my mind it
was something I would never live to see
and here I was living every day on the
banks of the Mekong River and try to
find your own way oh you don't have a
textbook for Palli write your own
textbook you don't have a teacher for
parallely take the appendix out of the
textbook memorize every single word in
the appendix do your own thing make your
own fortune you know that same sense of
being bold and creative and finding your
own way that's an aspect of my character
that's there in that name too you know
so for me it's something really positive
and even the connection to my father as
much as the change of name is linked to
unspeakable things that's still in this
video I'm not really going to talk about
hanging my father it's also connected to
a positive memory of my father what she
loved about the arts and the role of the
artist in society including taking on a
new name taking on a new direction and
not just challenging social expectations
but I guess we can say a challenging
expectation
of yourself